When you open the sketch.js file, you will
already find a couple of lines of code. This
is also sometimes referred to as a boilerplate.
A basis we can build upon. What you see here,
is basically three functions and those functions
are automatically called by the p5.js library,
as soon as our js-file is loaded into the browser.
The sequence of functions is extremely important.
I've tried to visualize it here in the graphic.
First up is the preload function. The preload
function we will later on use to load additional
assets, like fonts, images or other kinds of data.
This will make sure that this data is completely
loaded before anything else is being started.
Afterwards, after everything is loaded, the setup
function is called. Inside the setup function we
will do things that only need to be done once in
the beginning. Like setting certain parameters
or in this case using the createCanvas command
to create our canvas. Important is, if you want
anything to be done inside the setup function.
It needs to be placed inside the curly brackets.
The curly brackets define what is part of the
setup function. And the curly brackets will
come up later on in other examples, so it's very
important that you keep this in mind, if something
needs to be called with this particular function,
it needs to be inside the curly brackets.
After everything is done inside the setup
function. The draw function is being called.
Interesting about the draw function
is, it's being called in a loop.
So right now this might not be important, as
we're only drawing simple shapes. But later on
when we for example create animations, that change
over time, this repeatingly called draw function,
allows us to repeatedly change certain
parameters and thereby create animations.